# Smart-Fish-Aquarium
<p align="justify"> Fish keeping has become a widespread hobby and decorative trend, with people of all ages maintaining fish in various settings such as homes, offices, and commercial fish farms. There are difficulties to maintain a perfect condition for the fish to live. Coming across different peoples there are fish farmers, students, those who are in jobs etc. This group of people finds it hard to look after their aquariums or fish growing tanks due to different reasons. Due to this,  needful conditions for the fish to thrive are not given. To address the challenges of manually monitoring and maintaining aquariums, an IoT-connected system is presented. This system uses electronics to automate and control the aquarium's environment, including water conditions, lighting, automatic feeding, water filtering and water aeration. It communicates real-time status updates to a user's smartphone, significantly reducing the manual effort required for aquarium maintenance. The project helps people to access their aquariums or fish tanks from a part of the world, which helps fish farmers to look after their tanks on their own, which saves the labor charge to be given for the maintenance, with this anyone can plan for their business trips or leisure trips without being concerned about their fishes. The project utilizes an esp8266 WiFi based microcontroller as the system's control center, storing and transmitting data to a user via an Android app. This setup includes sensors for monitoring water temperature, actuators for providing wireless feeding, control to filters and lighting conditions. The command from mobile and the values from sensors are communicated to each other with the help of web servers. The result of this project aims to automation of an aquarium to make it available for users to control it in real time from any part of the world. </p>

> # What is this system?
<p align="justify"> Increased pet ownership in India, particularly addressing the challenges faced by fish owners in leaving extra food, leading to overfeeding and fish fatality, also the unchecked conditions of the aquarium. The project aims to ensure proper fish growth and maintenance, design an automatic fish feeder, and provide real-time monitoring for aquarium, automatic tank mold cleaning, all connected to mobile applications. Pet ownership in India has seen a 14% increase over the past 29 years. For fish owners, leaving extra food in the tank during extended absences isn't feasible and can lead to overfeeding. The breakdown of excess food releases harmful substances like ammonia and nitrites, reducing oxygen levels in the water. While various feeding options exist for cats and dogs, fish owners have fewer choices. Natural food in ponds includes detritus, bacteria, and plankton, making it challenging to determine the proper amount of artificial food. This project addresses these challenges by designing an automated system that monitors water temperature, quality, cleaning and facilitates automatic fish feeding in aquaculture environments. The solutions available now are basic projects with Arduino. The products available in the market are costly. The aim of the project is to implement these functionalities at a reduced cost, also with advanced microcontrollers. Use of microcontrollers like stm32 or LPC2129 provides much faster clock speeds and faster I/O operations. Power consumption is also taken into consideration. </p>

> # Methodology
